# Basic Next 13.4 application!

This is a very simple application built with **Next.js 13.4**, aimed at showcasing the basic concepts and functionality of the framework. Please note that this readme provides a high-level overview and does not delve deeply into Next.js. For more in-depth knowledge and detailed documentation, it is recommended to refer to the official Next.js documentation.

To gain a deeper understanding of this Next.js application, we highly recommend **exploring this codebase**. The code contains some comments that explain the usage and provide additional insights into various aspects of the application's implementation.

# Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)

- [Next essentials](#next-essentials)

- [Event loop](#blocking-event-loop)

- [Learn more](#learn-more)

# Getting Started

Make sure to install the dependencies and start the development server:

```bash
npm install
pnpm dev

```

# Next essentials

### [Routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing)

A file-system based router built on top of Server Components that supports layouts, nested and dynamic routing, loading states, error handling, and more.

> e.g. The app portfolio directory has been created and handles the "/portfolio" URL.

Next.js also offers the **Link component**, which provides client-side navigation between pages without a full refresh.

> e.g. Check it in the app layout.

Also, useRouter hook allows you to programmatically change routes inside Client Components.

> e.g. Check the NavigationButton component

### [Rendering](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering)

Client-side and Server-side Rendering with Client and Server Components. Further optimized with Static and Dynamic Rendering on the server with Next.js. Streaming on Edge and Node.js runtimes.

In Next.js, the lightweight Edge Runtime is a subset of available Node.js APIs. **The Edge Runtime** is ideal if we need to deliver dynamic, personalized content at low latency with small, simple functions.


> The **User component** is server side component and displays the user random api data fetched. The Navigation Button is client side component ( by using 'use-client' word)

### [Data Fetching](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching)

Simplified data fetching with async/await support in React Components and the `fetch()`s API that aligns with React

> e.g. The **User component** uses it to fetch the random user api endpoint

### [Optimizations](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing)

Image, Fonts, and Script Optimizations to improve your application's Core Web Vitals and User Experience. Image component comes with automatic image optimization for LCP.

> e.g. The **User component** uses it with priority prop

### [Typescript](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript)

Improved support for TypeScript, with better type checking and more efficient compilation, as well as custom TypeScript Plugin and type checker.

### [File Conventions](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions)

Certain files follow specific naming conventions and serve particular purposes. Here's a brief overview of these files:

1. default.js
2. error.js
3. layout.js
4. loading.js
5. not-found.js.
6. page.js
7. route.js

### [Metadata](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata)

In this basic Next.js application, you can find the following metadata files: robots.txt and sitemap.
Next.js automatically generates a sitemap based on the pages defined in your application

> Checkout the sitemap and robot txt inside the app folder

### [Styling](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/styling)

Support for your preferred styling methods, including CSS Modules, Tailwind CSS, and CSS-in-JS

### [Accessibility](https://nextjs.org/docs/architecture/accessibility)

By default, Next.js includes eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y to help catch accessibility issues early and route announcer.

## Blocking the Event Loop

The blockEventLoop function creates a hash object using the SHA256 algorithm and then performs a large number of hash updates using random strings generated by the getRandomString function. Since the number of iterations is 10e6 (10 million), it will take a considerable amount of time for the loop to complete.

During the execution of the blockEventLoop function, the event loop will be occupied with the computations, and it won't be able to process any other events or callbacks. This can result in a frozen or unresponsive state for our app until the loop finishes executing. This route was done for performance testing.

# Learn more

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.
